A Sādhana of Mārīcī1
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

Refuge & Bodhicitta
sangye chö dang tsok kyi chok nam la
In the Buddha, the Dharma and the Supreme Assembly
changchub bardu dak ni kyab su chi
I take refuge until I attain enlightenment.
dak gi jin sok gyipé sönam kyi
Through the merit of practising generosity and so on,
dro la pen chir sangye drubpar shok
May I attain buddhahood for the benefit of all beings.
Repeat this verse three times.
Main Part
tongpé ngang lé kechik gi
Instantaneously, out of the state of emptiness,
pak sermo shyi drangpé shingté teng
Upon a chariot drawn by four [golden] sows,
pema dawé dal gyi ü
In the heart of a lotus and moon disc,
mam lé özer chen ma ni
Arises Mārīcī out of the syllable Māṃ.
ser dok rinchen gyencha dang
She is golden in colour, wears jewel ornaments,
dar gyi tö yok mé sham dzé
And is clothed in upper and lower garments of silk.
chak yé chok jin nya ngen mé
Her right hand is in the gesture of supreme giving
shing gi yalga nampa dang
And holds the branch of an aśoka plant,
yönpé khab dang küpa dzin
While her left hand holds a needle and thread.
salwé tuk né rang dra ni
From her radiant heart centre she emanates
pakmé tröpé dra dön gek
Countless forms, identical to herself,
zukchen zukmé nöpa nam
Who utterly annihilate enemies, negative influences, obstacle-makers,
ming tsam mepar lakpar gyur
And harmdoers—material and immaterial—so that not even their names remain.
om maritsyai mum soha
oṃ mārīcyai mūṃ svāhā
Recite the mantra as many times as possible.
Conclusion
Then conclude with:
gewa di yi nyurdu dak
Through the merit of this, may I swiftly
özer chen ma drub gyur né
Attain the realization of Mārīcī,
drowa chik kyang malüpa
And thereby may every single sentient being
dé yi sa la göpar shok
Reach this state of perfection too.

Jamyang Chökyi Lodrö wrote this in response to a request from the prime minister Dekhar.2 May
virtue and excellence increase!

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön
Sogyal Trust, 2021.

Source: 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. ’Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros kyi gsung ’bum. 12 vols.
Bir: Khyentse Labrang, 2012. W1KG12986 Vol. 7: 284
↑ Title added by the translator; the original is untitled.↑ I.e., Lukhangpa Tsewang Rabten (1895–1966).